feat(iam): saml (#5463)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/iam/how-to/set-up-identity-federation.mdx

   - Okta
   - OneLogin
   - Microsoft Entra ID (prev. Azure AD)
   - PingIdentity
   - Google Workspace
   - Keycloak

## How to set up a SAML connection

1. Go to your security settings.
2. Scroll to the **Identity Federation** section.
3. Click **Set up SSO**. A pop-up appears.
4. Copy the URLs displayed in the pop-up.

    The information in the first step are the URLs referring to Scaleway that will be requested by your Identity Provider to create a link between platforms. They are:
        - The assertion consumer service (ACS) URL, and
        - Scaleway's entity ID

5. Click **Next**.
6. Enter the requested URLs in their respective boxes.

    This is the information referring to your Identity Provider that Scaleway needs to confirm the connection. It can be found in your IdP's configuration page. They are:
        - **Single Sign-On URL** - This is the URL your members will be redirected to when logging in with SAML
        - **The Identity Provider's Entity ID**
7. Click **Confirm**.
8. Enter the signing certificate generated by your Identity Provider in the box.
    <Message type="important">

>     You certificate entry must start with:

Reviewer: We should probably more stated that we accept only "base64-encoded certificates". We should also state that the certificat must have an expiration date.

> 8. Enter the signing certificate generated by your Identity Provider in the box.
>     <Message type="important">
>     You certificate entry must start with:
>     ```
>     -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
>     ```
>     And end with:
>     ```
>     -----END CERTIFICATE-----
>     ```
>     </Message>

Author: ```suggestion
8. Enter the signing certificate generated by your Identity Provider in the box.
    <Message type="important">
    Keep in mind that:
    - Only base64-encoded certificates are supported. 
    - The certificate must have an expiration date.
    - Your certificate entry must start with:
        ```
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
        ```
        And end with:
        ```
        -----END CERTIFICATE-----
        ```
    </Message>
```

---
title: How to set up identity federation
description: This page shows you how to set up identity federation on your Organization
dates:
  validation: 2025-09-21
  posted: 2025-08-21
---

You can set up Identity Federation at Scaleway to ensure your [members can log in via Single Sign-On (SSO)]().

At Scaleway we use Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) to provide Identity Federation. You can link user identities across multiple independent systems and organizations to enable SSO across domains. You can manage your Scaleway identities via your Identity Provider of choice, as long as the provider supports SAML.

<Requirements />

> - A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)

Reviewer 2: We can add in the Requirements: An Identity Provider configured in your company, with all users who need to access to Scaleway already set-up in it. Typical examples of Identity providers include (not exhaustive)
- Okta
- OneLogin
- Microsoft Entra ID (prev. Azure AD)
- PingIdentity
- Google Workspace
- Keycloak
